>> Kent C. Dodds: Okay,
what did you learn?
>> Speaker 2: Throwing an event handler in
state just feels so gross to the point
where I gave up using context.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah?
[CROSSTALK]
>> Speaker 2: Recently because I didn't
even think that I could do that.
[CROSSTALK] because it feels-
>> Kent C. Dodds: It does feel wrong.
>> Speaker 2: Icky.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yes, it does.
>> Speaker 2: But it's good to know that,
I mean, that's.
>> Kent C. Dodds: That's kind of
the accepted way to do this kind of thing.
>> Speaker 2: I guess I should just
be on Twitter all the time.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah
[LAUGH].
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah,
that's what I do [LAUGH].
No, no, so
it does feel really kinda weird.
If you're concerned about that,
there is an alternative actually.
You could add a property
on state called context or
context value, whatever you wanna call it.
And then put on is false and
toggle this.toggle.
And then it's at least
nested inside of your
state.
>> Speaker 2: And
you pass this.state.context?
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah so
anytime you call setState
to update context stuff.
When you're doing this, though, you
actually have to pass in the whole thing.
So you'd say context.
And then you'd have to say on is not
on and then toggle is this.toggle.
Thanks to the way that yeah and
something else is busted.
But, yeah, here we go.
state.context [INAUDIBLE].
Something else is busted, but yeah, that's
the basic idea, and this extra stuff
every single time I call setState to
something that's in context is like.
And maybe step back and think, okay, so
how bad is it really to put handlers,
yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Sure, that makes sense.
I can see it being useful when you're
using a lot of state on this component and
then also passing some things down.
But in this case it's not.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah, yeah,
that's a really great point.
So if there's some state you wanna expose
to context but you don't wanna expose all
of your state, then that would
definitely be a solution for that.
Good question.
I'm glad you brought that up.
Any other things that you learned,
yeah, or questions?
>> Speaker 3: With the new context API,
what pattern have you seen like
of having multiple contexts and
like sort of layering them?
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah, yeah,
cuz these consumers,
they can get kind of nested.
Like, what if I needed another consumer
and another one and another one?
Glad you asked.
I actually have a pretty active blog.
I blog once a week.
And not that one, even though that
looks like that might be the one.
It is, I think it's in answers
to common questions, but
it might also also be context,
the new context API.
Which is actually not on my blog,
I published it to DailyJS.
This is where I introduced
the context API.
And I show, yeah,
this is exactly what you're talking about.
Andrew was lamenting this.
And there is a solution.
You can create your own component that
does all of that composition for you.
It handles all the nesting and
then your thing is only nested one level.
Or there is actually a component
called react-composer.
There are like six of these now.
That can handle all that nesting for you.
I think, if we load this up really quick,
I can show you what that looks like.
It is, yeah.
So here's the super nested one.
It's a lot of fun.
Or one that's a little more composed.
You can pass in all the providers.
Great question.
Other things that you learned or
questions?
So somebody in the chat asked me
to reiterate the reason why we're
passing this.state to value,
rather than an object.
And so what happens when you pass a,
or, here, let's do.
I'll just put this in right here.
Every single time that this
render function is called,
this object is gonna be reallocated.
So we could assign this to const
value = that and pass that.
That's functionally equivalent to
what we had just a second ago.
And what this means is we're creating
a brand new object in memory and
passing it into the value
of ToggleContext.Provider.
And so whenever
ToggleContext.Provider is rendered,
it's gonna check, did the value prop
change, did the reference change at all?
It doesn't do like a shallow compare
to the previous or anything like that.
It's just, did it change.
And if it did, then it's going
to re-render all of this stuff.
Now, as we have it here, the value is
going to change every single time.
But the actual values within
this value will never change.
They're always the same.
So re-rendering all of
the consumers is pointless because
those values never change anyway.
And so
that's why we pass this.state in instead.
Because the object this.state will only
change when state is actually changed.